Pnnnncu iii

Nonnandy and their other dominions in France, took with
them all the acts and public registers relating to those
countries and deposited them in the Tower. It will be
found, when the whole of this important body of evidence
is published, that there is scarcely a city or town in
Normandy, Gascony, or such of the other provinces of
France as were formerly subject to England, which will
nothe able to find its charter of incorporation, aug·
mentatione of its privileges, or confirmations of its fran-
chises in this work. The religious communities in those
countries will also obtain information of grants of land
to them, exemptions from tolls and imposta, and other
advantageous privileges: whilst the historiens of France
will discover many interesting documenta, some tending
to the establishment or elucidation of historical facts,
others proving the antiquity of many of the principal
families in that kingdom: supplying a fund of original
data hitherto unknown.

It has been more than once recommended to the
French Govcmment to obtain authentic transcripta of
these Rolls, to place them in some public repository,
and to declare that they should be admitted as evidence
in the various courts of judicature.¹ Many of the most
important documenta mentioned in Carte's Catalogue to

those Rolls were copied by Mons. Brequigny about the
year 1765, and taken to France3 but they arc not now

to be found, and are supposed to have perished in the
general destruction of property which occurred during

the revolution.

¹ Duly authenticated office copies made at tho Tower are admitted in

evidence in the Law couru in Franco.
a a

 

